Downloaded from
YTS.MX
Official YIFY movies site:
I really don't know about this. bro.
What are we doing?
Mr. Dorsey only cut a tiny piece
and it blew a hole in the ceiling.
A tiny. tiny piece.
bro. like a sunflower seed.
What are we doing?
We're planting sunflower seeds
and we're going to grow
a giant sunflower tree.
'Na'.
What's that? 'Na'?
-It's Sodium.
-Sodium?
The symbol for Sodium is N - A
from the German word 'Natrium'.
Natrium?
Take some Natrium
and shove it up your butt.
Wait Blabla man. Duiwel
listen here. this is not a good idea. bro.
What are we doing?
Well. Blabla.
Natrium aka Sodium
is a very. very volatile metal.
See here. it's kept in oil
because if it touches water.
even a tiny bit of water. it's most likely
to cause a massive explosion.
Hey. isn't that the stuff
that Dorsey put in the water last week?
It blew up like a motherfucker
the whole roof was fucked!
-The ceiling.
-What?
The ceiling. Not the roof.
-It was on top by the roof.
-It doesn't matter. bro.
Duiwel. listen here.
This is not a good idea.
Duiwel are you mad. bro?
That's too much.
Put it back!
Yesterday my old man met up
with one of his old school friends.
All they could fucking talk about
was the shit they did
when they were on fucking school.
Two fucking old fat alcoholic has-beens.
And they haven't done
a single thing worth talking about
since their fucking high school days.
To be honest.
I'd rather get blown to shit
than end up like they did.
But if I don't die.
I'd better have more exciting stories
than the shit they had.
See?
Blown up. Or a good story.
It's a win-win situation.
Heads up!
Shit!
-Hey. I'm going to go get it. man.
-Wait Blabla.
Everyone can just take the Natrium
and shove it in their butts.
Fuck!
Fuck… fuck… fuck.
Guys. let's get the fuck out of here.
Come Duiwel.
Heads up. guys!
Shit.
What the hell
is going on here boys?
Sir. we were standing
there down by our class
and we heard a massive Kaboom. Sir.
So we came running to see.
Sir. do you think it's terrorism. Sir?
Get back to your classes. boys!
Yes. Sir.
Sir. maybe it's from a sewerage pipe
running under the field
and someone flushed a cigarette.
It's like methane. Sir.
Like in Physics.
See you. Sir.
That was really hectic. bro.
Leave me!
Condom…
condom…
condom.
Fuck.
Not again.
Are you going to
finish school early today?
Yes. I'll finish at like two.
A pretty girl like you
shouldn't be in school anymore.
So what do you want me to do then?
Be my wife.
What the fuck?
We have to record this day.
like a historical record.
like the Rosetta Stone.
Sodium Day. Yeah…
This day will go down in memory.
Start of the day. Prefect.
Right everybody! Line up nice. nice now.
Come on.
Hey. you two. don't slack.
Don't dilly-dally. okay?
What are we going to do with him?
Bro. anything we do to him
will just make him worse.
Thank you. everyone.
Keep the line straight now.
Come. come. come…
Jerome. where's Simone?
I don't know.
She wasn't at the terminus this morning.
-Maybe she's sick.
-She's never sick.
-I know.
-Did you message her?
I did message her
but she didn't read it yet.
But I'm going to try to call her later.
Get to class!
Okay. everyone.
are you ready to go inside?
Looking a bit thin in the water today.
Keep the lines straight.
Thank you. Thank you.
Blabla.
aren't you supposed to check latecomers?
Yes. Prefect.
Okay.
Everyone inside.
Hey. why aren't you in line?
-Inside. please.
-See here.
Prefect.
-Show some respect. man.
-Everyone. can you please go inside?
Blabla!
Inside. please!
Let's go!
Now you have to listen to me
very carefully now.
Tomorrow morning.
this can't happen again.
Otherwise.
this would be your new home.
Go to class.
Malusi. very irresponsible behavior
for a matric student.
That would be a latecomers
detention for you.
You see here? Prefect.
Show some respect. man.
You know what. Blabla?
You need to shut the fuck up.
Malusi.
Hey dude…
What is that blonde nappy head's name?
-That's Malusi.
-From which class?
Twelve Y. at the back.
Why?
It's nothing. Don't worry.
Latecomers detention.
Nice and full. yeah.
Nice and full.
Okay. class.
Settle down. 12Y. settle down.
Settle. please!
Let's do the register.
-Cindy?
-Not here. Mrs.
Typical. Sylvia?
She's here. Mrs.
Thank you. Bukelwa?
No. Mrs.
-Jerome?
-Yes. Mrs.
-Thandisizwe?
-Not here. Mrs.
-Keegan?
-Mark me absent. Mrs.
I don't want to be here.
Present.
Noluthando?
Here. Mrs.
Themb's?
-What are you doing here?
-I'm the security. dude.
Yeah…
Number one security.
-Wait. how old are you. 16?
-I'm 15. dude.
But look here… fake I.D.
21 years old!
-And school?
-Who needs school bro?
Do you know how much
I'm earning here?
Two thousand. eight hundred rand.
-That's nothing.
-Nothing?
I can buy two pairs of Nikes
every month.
And food?
At least I have under 150
to buy half a loaf every day.
-You're crazy.
-Hold up.
Lend me your smartphone.
I want to watch some training videos.
-You break. you buy. okay?
-Relax. dude.
And hey. don't use my data. bro.
Two thousand. eight hundred rand.
I'll buy my own data. man.
What the hell is going on here?
You…
get to your class.
And you.
you don't talk to the students.
You do your work
or else I'll have you replaced.
Where must you be?
The gate. Sir.
Well?
Excuse me. Sir.
can I be of any assistance?
Yes.
-Prefect. Sir.
-Yes.
I'm supposed to be substituting.
Hey you. take this guy to reception.
Yes…
I would like for you to fill
in your name in there and there. Sir.
-Okay.
-And come with me.
You're late. Malusi.
-Trains. Mrs.
-Yeah. trains.
Phone them. Mrs.
The trains are delaying again.
See anyone who takes a train here?
Noluthando is here on time.
-Why?
-I take the 5:30 a.m.. Mrs.
Mrs.. I have to take
my sister to creche
and my brother
to primary school first.
Can I please sit down?
Jerome. where's Simone?
I don't know. Mrs.
She wasn't at
the terminus this morning.
It's not like her.
She's never missed a single day of school.
Hey Simone. where are you?
Everyone is looking for you.
It's complicated.
But don't worry. okay?
But you're not even answering your phone.
What's going on?
Jerome.
You're always so worried about me
and it's very sweet.
But don't worry. okay?
Don't worry.
See everyone.
the Prefect returns from his duty.
Why. Mrs.?
Why did you make him a prefect?
You know we don't have
an official prefect system.
I just had to get
him out of my hair
in the morning
during Registration Period.
Don't hate the player.
hate the game.
Mrs.. what timetable is it today?
We're switching to the "B" timetable.
So it's day one of the "B" timetable.
Why are we switching
to the "B" timetable?
To accommodate
the public holidays next week.
Why didn't we
just keep the same timetable?
Timetable swaps
have nothing to do with me.
-Ask Mr. Dorsey.
-"A" timetable.
"B" timetable. Day one. Day four.
Heaven forbid
we get into any kind of routine.
-It's double Maths.
-Yes! Double free.
Mrs. when are we getting a new teacher?
It's six weeks to the finals.
It's too late.
-Just enjoy the free period.
-Mrs. when?
-Ask Mr. Dorsey.
-Dorsey doesn't give a shit.
Hey. Keegan.
-Watch your language.
-Expel me.
It's six weeks before the finals.
Don't push me. boy.
Settle down 12Y!
I don't know. Mrs.
-Twelve Y…
-I don't know. Mrs.
Everyone. this is Mr…
Smith.
John Smith.
Yes. that's… that's actually my name.
Why wouldn't it be your name?
-Duiwel. don't start.
-No. no. it's fine.
It's because it's like
the most common name. you know.
No. it's not.
-Wakes is the most common name.
-No man. it's Fakes.
-Nolu?
-It's Xola.
-Sir. we don't know any John Smiths.
-Guys. stop messing around now.
Misbehave and I'll be dealing with you.
No messing about.
Duiwel…
Yes. Mrs.
-Blabla.
-What. Mrs?
Yes. Mrs. No messing around.
Nolu. come get me
if there are any hassles.
-Okay.
-Just send her to me. okay?
I'm sure it'll be fine.
Jama. why are you late?
Trains. Mrs. You can call them.
Just go sit down.
Okay. so you should be fine.
-You're late.
-Trains. Ma'am.
Who's this?
-Go sit.
-It's not my fault that I'm late.
Hey there. my baby.
Okay… 12Y…
I don't know. sir.
Why does he always say that?
We don't know. sir.
Just ignore him.
Okay. well.
I've been given this worksheet to…
Train number 0745
has been canceled.
-Train number 2526…
-Has been canceled.
-Train number 3572…
-Train number 0522?
-Has been canceled.
No. that one is one hour delay.
-Metrorail apologizes…
-For the inconvenience caused.
Sir. no one from Khayelitsha
is coming in today.
The trains are just sitting there
on the line filled with people.
They can't get off.
-Who are you. Sir?
-It's our new Maths teacher.
John Smith.
And you are?
I'm X.
X is my first name. my middle name is X.
My surname is X.
Wow.
Triple-X.
X-rated. liberated.
dedicated. mentally activated.
-And retardated.
-You get lost.
-And at the party. you were gated.
-Shut up. man.
Don't use your darkie language
here with me. okay?
That's Thandisizwe. Sir.
-You our new Maths teacher. Sir?
-I'm just substituting for today.
What the hell. man?
We keep getting
someone for one day…
two days… This is bullshit.
The exams are next month.
Well. I'm not really
a Maths teacher. I mean.
I did pass Maths in high school
but I'm an English
and Life Orientation teacher.
Why did I sit on the train for two hours?
Sorry. Sir.
Okay. well…
You can pass these out and then.
you guys. whenever you're ready.
you can just begin
and if you have any problems. let me know
and I'll see if I can help you.
Mommy. are you home?
Sir. we can't do question number one.
We haven't done this section.
Okay then…
Just do question two.
It's a different section.
We haven't done
that section either. Sir.
Sorry. Sir!
Okay. well then. maybe…
Sir. we didn't cover question
three and question four either. Sir.
We can't do any
of these worksheets. Sir.
Can you teach us a section?
Okay. well…
How about this?
Everyone take a few minutes
and write down what you understand
and then I'll see
what I can help you with.
Jeez.
-What are you doing?
-Sir. just leave her. You don't want to--
No. I think you should sit down.
Sir. don't do that.
She's going to trip.
Please sit down.
What the hell?
What's wrong with her?
-She's always been like that. Sir.
-You must just leave her next time.
Sorry. sir.
Yo. bro
you won't believe this…
What is it?
I was outside Cindy's place
this morning…
Yeah?
And a Nigger walks out of her place.
-My Cindy's place?
-Yes. your Cindy's place.
So what did you do?
I followed that fucker.
He goes to her school.
John Shelby High.
-And then?
-I got his name.
Malusi. class 12Y.
I'm going to kill that motherfucker.
Malusi…
Hey. come on Malusi!
So what are you going to buy me?
For my birthday next week?
-What do you want me to get?
-You know what I want.
Okay.
How about we eat out?
How about Spur?
You know that I like jewelry.
Sorry. Sir.
-Why do they keep doing that?
-Just ignore it. Sir.
You know what?
It's impossible to concentrate.
-Are these the class keys?
-This guy doesn't listen. hey?
No.
Stop bloody disturbing us!
Now you see why
we don't have a Maths teacher. Sir.
All the new teachers
have a problem
with when to ignore
and when to respond.
When told and when to fold. Sir.
-You play Poker. sir?
-No. I don't.
You should. Sir.
-You have a Poker face.
-What are you talking about?
Sir. it's just one of those times
you must just ignore.
Think I'm going to
start taking your advice.
Sir. it's double Maths.
You're still here
for another period.
Sir. which section
are you going to teach us?
Well based on your notes…
looks like every
section is a problem.
Teach us something. Sir.
Okay. calculus.
Have you guys
done any calculus?
-No. Sir.
-Nothing?
Nothing.
What about exponents
and quadratic equations?
-Sir. you're very optimistic.
-I don't think so. sir.
Okay well then. I think I should
start off with those sections.
Sir. it's not going to help.
Just give us the free period.
No. I think I'll
start with an explanation.
Okay…
I don't understand what the problem is.
We sent an email ages ago.
Today is the History exchange class.
We put a lot of time into this program.
I didn't receive any emails. Mrs…
Kitchener. You can call me Lynn.
Mrs. Kitchener. can't we postpone?
Today. it's not a good day.
Sorry. but our transport's left already.
Are you going to pay
for the individual cabs to get us home?
Mrs. Khumalo--
There's no teaching today.
It's only paperwork.
Mrs. Khumalo. surely you could…
Surely you could just call
my union representative.
Goodness. gracious…
Thank you. Mrs. Khumalo.
-You can go.
-Thank you. Sir.
Don't look at me. Mr. Dorsey.
There's a substitute in 12Y.
Why don't we send them there
until we know what to do?
He's not going to kick up a fuss.
Mrs. Yorke.
you may just be on to something.
Come with me.
So in the graph equation who can tell me
what represents the gradient?
Come on guys.
this is grade nine Maths.
Sir. are you going to
be here tomorrow?
-I don't know. but--
-Then there's no point
in starting something.
Just give us
the free period already.
Sir. can you please
just show us one thing?
This one.
Question number three.
The derivative of the first principle
is as H tends to zero.
Okay sure. No problem.
Okay. the first thing you going
to have to do is write down
if F of X is equal to X two.
then you need to take F.
F of X plus H minus
F of X.
All of this needs to be over H.
Then you need to
substitute this into this.
So you'll take
the X two and you'll put it in…
or no. actually… Sorry. it goes in…
No. but then you…
But you… Doesn't…
Just give me a second.
Hey!
-I'm so sorry.
-Mr. Smith.
I am Mr. Dorsey
the Vice-Principal.
Nice to meet you.
I trust everybody
has been on their best behavior.
Yes. sir.
Everything's fine.
Good. good.
-Twelve Y…
-I don't know. sir.
Sorry. sir.
Twelve Y.
today is a very exciting day.
A group of students
from our Twin Project school
Fern Leaf House.
will be joining us for the day.
I trust you will be
at your best behavior
and treat them appropriately.
Am I understood?
Brian?
Keegan?
And you. Thandisizwe.
you keep your mouth in your pants.
Right. Mrs. Kitchener. students.
you may join us.
Come.
Hello everyone. I'm Lynn Kitchener
and this is my history top set.
These white teachers
and their first names.
-Noluthando…
-Yes. Sir?
You come and call me
if things get out of hand.
-Yes. Sir.
-Why does no one ever ask me?
No. sorry. please…
-No. no. I insist.
-Can someone please just talk.
All right. Well. 12 Foxes
I suppose you can sit down.
I'm going to sit with my Black people.
Lynn. there's an error on the board.
may I just…
Well. this is his class…
-Please just go ahead.
-Thank you.
Well. this…
This is supposed to be X-squared.
And then if this is the formula.
you substitute that in. which means.
tends to zero. which means that it'll be
X plus H. squared. minus X squared
all over H. which means that you're left
with two X H
plus H-squared over H
and then you have to take out the H
because we all know
you can't divide by zero.
…two X plus H over H.
That cancels out that.
which means that the answer is two X.
Well done. Victoria.
My pleasure. Lynn.
That explanation was a work of art.
Well. Lynn. one could say
that mathematics is the antithesis of art.
Or is it the foundation upon
which art is built. Victoria?
What in the freaking hell
is happening right now?
I have no idea. bro.
She's not here. bro.
Fucking bitch.
Pick up the phone. Cindy.
Pick up the fucking phone!
This Nigger is he a tough guy?
No. he's a pussy.
I want to see his blood.
-Just say when. bro.
-We go now.
Okay.
Let's get some tools first.
Good idea.
Right. guys? So maybe we
should start with introductions.
So maybe someone from 12 Foxes
can go and then someone from 12Y…
-I don't know. Mrs.
-Sorry. what did you say?
I just said that it's amazing
to have such a wonderful visit
from you here by our class.
I'm a Prefect.
So if you need help with anything.
just ask.
Thank you.
That's very kind.
That's anything.
-Okay. so who wants to--
-Anything. Mrs.
-Thank you.
-You're welcome.
All right.
Okay. so who wants to go first?
She's super hot. bro.
Victoria. as class captain-ness
maybe you should go.
Certainly. Lynn.
Good morning. everyone.
My name is Victoria Bentley
and I'm the top student at Fern Leaf.
I take 11 subjects
and have already been
provisionally accepted
into both Harvard and Cambridge.
I'm studying pre-med.
though I'm having a bit of trouble
deciding which one I want to go to.
Anyway. my motto is 'There's no. no
if you know.'
Thank you. Victoria.
And now someone from 12Y?
Jama. Who is that?
Yeah. I'm Jama
but you can call me Jah-Man. yo.
Yeah. sure. Yeah.
Okay.
Thank you.
-Who would like to go next?
-I'll go. Lynn.
Hi. everyone.
I'm Britainee.
but not like the singer Britney.
Like Britain. the country
but with an 'ee' on the end.
Anyway. so I'm hoping to study
a degree in dance and drama
at the University of Cape Town.
Yeah. my name is Thandisizwe.
Lover of the land.
The land of my people.
Take it back.
Make it Black.
-Yeah.
-Hi. I'm Josh.
I like surfing. kite surfing.
paragliding.
and chilling with my bro's
at Clifton Fourth.
My name is Ofno.
Ofno?
Of no consequence
to all of you.
Hi. I'm Jerome.
I just want to say
welcome to all the visitors.
I know it's disorganized today
but this school is just so.
Here you must
just go with the flow.
Hi. my name's Chloe.
I just want to say how happy I am
to be a part of this initiative
and to help
all the disadvantaged people.
especially all my Black people and how…
I just want to say…
I'm not so sure.
My name is Noluthando
and it is my dream to study medicine.
I want to become a doctor
and work at the clinic
in Gugs where I live.
Li Juan.
Hello. Lynn.
My name is Brian.
It's a deep pleasure
to have such a wonderful visit
from you here by our class.
I'm very open to
cultural exchange programs.
That's my number there on the wall
if you need me.
I don't know.
Hi.
I am Malusi.
And hands-off. whiteys and coconuts.
He's mine.
Bukelwa. That's my name.
You. Say my name.
Bu- ke-lwa.
Bu- kel- wa.
-Bukelwa.
-Bu- kelwa.
And don't forget it. okay?
-Bukelwa.
-Thank you. I think that's everyone?
Lynn. you forgot about Robin.
This is so lame.
Come on. Robin.
Fine. I'll give it a go.
Well. it's just that
no one gets me.
I feel like
I'm wondering this cosmos alone.
Like a meteor of dark matter
searching for a poisonous atmosphere
in which to explode brightly
into oblivion.
It's difficult being a thing
of shattered beauty
like a mirror
reflecting the thorn of a rose
shattered into a thousand pieces
cutting deep into the soles of my feet
and my footprints
are red roses of bright blood.
I'm Robin.
Thank you. Robin.
So. anyway.
today's a History exchange class.
So I'll do a history lesson.
You history teacher will do a lesson
and then we can exchange notes.
Mrs.. this class does not do History.
What?
But we specified History in the emails.
-Why didn't you say anything?
-I'm just a substitute.
-I don't know what's going on.
-This is just unacceptable.
Okay. 12 Foxes you wait here.
I'm going to go see
if I could speak to someone about this.
Okay then.
I guess I'm going to
another class.
It was interesting meeting all of you.
Hey. Chloe.
You like Black people. hey?
Well. yes. of course.
I love my Black people.
So you want to know
how it feels like to be Black. hey Chloe?
I'm not sure.
Maybe?
Get in.
Get in where?
-Look. I don't…
-Hey!
I would listen to him if I were you.
-Get in. you.
-Okay. okay.
Now you're going to bunk the whole day
like a good Black student. okay?
Well this is like
a cultural experience. right?
-Yeah.
-Okay.
Thank you.
Okay. settle down. everyone.
Who are these?
It's the exchange students
from Fern Leaf House.
Simone. where are you?
Such a strange day today
with all these new people here.
I wish you could have seen it.
It's one of those things.
Looks like fun though
and I'm sorry I'm missing it.
What would you
have said in your introduction?
I would say 'Hi. I'm Simone
and life is such a cruel
and beautiful thing'.
Simone. is everything okay?
And this is my best friend
in the world. Jerome.
He has such a big heart
and he's so very special.
Someone.
I want to tell you something.
-And where is their teacher?
-She just left.
When your teacher comes back.
she must take all of you.
Sit quiet. please.
Fuck this.
You exchange ones.
you don't disturb.
You sit very. very quiet. right?
Please.
And why are you late?
-I went to the toilet. Mrs.
-You went to the toilet. Mrs.
I don't have to be here.
I did my grade 12.
Ask yourself.
why are you in 12Y?
Why are you useless?
Why are you stupid?
Why you are going to fail this subject?
Me. I was in 12A.
'A' for Excellent.
Okay. guys.
we're going to carry on
with Shakes-a-spear.
King Lear.
We are on the scene in page 116.
Can someone tell me in shortcut
where we are?
You. Jama.
Yeah. The King. Mrs.
His name is Liar and
he wants to go on a trip. but--
I'm wasting my time.
Bukelwa?
Hey. why do you always pick me?
Okay. there's these two sisters.
And then. like the one likes the father.
The other one don't like him.
And then they fight each other
and the one stabs the other one--
As usual. never paying attention.
Thandisizwe?
Hey Mrs.. why are we reading
this white people stuff?
-I hate this.
-My boy.
the day you write a book.
we will read it in this class.
You exchange ones?
No.
-You. were you listening?
-Yes. Mrs.
Explain what happened.
Mrs.. it starts off where there is a king.
But everything is good.
Then he thinks. 'Wait.
I want to take a break. okay?'
Then he leaves his kids to supervise
and go on. like. a holiday.
But things don't go well
because his kids are assholes.
I'm wasting my time here.
Let's get back to page 116.
You. Jerome. You are King Lear.
Thandisizwe. you are Kent.
-You. you are the Fool.
-Wow. Mrs.
Read!
"Hail to there. noble master!"
"Ha! Makest thou this shame thy pastime?"
"No. my lord."
"He wears cruel garters.
"Horses are tied by the heads.
"dogs and bears by the neck.
monkeys by th'… low-ins?"
Mrs.. what is 'low-ins'?
It's 'loins'. Like your arms.
Okay.
"Monkeys by the loins
and men by the legs.
"When a man's over lusty at legs
then he wears wooden nether-stocks."
"What's he that hath
so much place mistook
"to set thee here?"
"It is both he and she.
your son and daughter."
-"No."
-"Yes."
-"No. I say."
-"I say. yeah."
"No. no. they would not."
"Yes. they have."
"By Jupiter. I swear no."
"By…. Juno
"I swear. aye."
"They durst not dot."
"They could not would not dot.
It is worse than murder."
That's my lines. bro.
Yeah. but this Fool guy has shit lines.
"They durst not do't.
"They could not would not do't;
"tis worse than murder.
-"To do upon respect--"
-"My Lord. when at their home
I did commend your Highness'
letters to them.
"Ere. I was risen and showed…"
Hey no. Mrs.
This is too long.
I can't read this.
Yes. skip it.
Let's go to the next scene
on page 126.
"O. sir.
""you are old.
"Nature in you stands
on the very verge
"of her confines.
"You should be ruled
and led by your discretion
"that discerns your state
better than you. yourself.
"Therefore.
"I pray you that you
do make return to our sister.
"Say you have wronged her. sir."
"Ask her forgiveness?
"Do you but mark
how this becomes the house.
"Dear daughter.
"I confess that I am old.
but age is not necessary.
"On my knees.
I beg that you'll vouchsafe me raiment.
food and bed."
"Good. sir. No.
These are unsightly tricks.
Return you to my sister."
-"Never. Regan."
-Never. Regan!
"Never. Regan.
"She hath abated me
of half my train.
"Looked black upon…
"Looked black upon me.
"Strike me with her tongue
most serpent-like
"upon the very heart.
"All the sorted vengeance
"of heaven fall
on her ingrateful top!
"Strike her young bones
"you taking airs
with lameness-ness."
"Fie. Sir. fie!"
Class. for homework.
read the next ten pages.
We will discuss in the next class.
-It's break time now. 15 minutes.
-Thank you.
Maybe we should just wait here.
I think I'm going
to go get some air outside.
Okay. just don't go far.
I'll just be outside the door.
Hello. guys.
Can I come out now?
Yeah. you can come out for break.
But you come back in the cupboard
when the bell rings. okay?
Okay.
-Hi.
I'm Noluthando.
but you can call me Nolu.
-Victoria.
-Yes. you are standing out.
-I get that a lot.
-I want to be a doctor.
-Yes. I heard.
You were already accepted?
Yes. it's all about
having the right strategy.
Knowing what to say.
when to say it. who to say it to.
I applied at UCT and Wits. but.
my marks are not good.
Yeah. that's not surprising.
What can I do?
Do you know of a way?
Will you be able to assist me?
Of course. Here.
Give me your number
and your email address.
First thing we need to consider
is what works to your advantage.
Your skin color.
It's a major advantage
and you need to use it.
Black is the new white.
You should write this down.
Right. Number one - skin color.
Secondly. international funding.
There's a lot of it coming in
from Europe for people like you.
International funding…
That's 'internatio-NAL'. not NEL.
A-L. not E-L.
Okay.
Are you from 12Y?
Yeah.
-Is Malusi in your class?
I shouldn't tell you this
but I owe him from the time
he stopped those guys from thrashing me
at the soccer tournament.
Yeah. what?
A friend told me Big Wakes
is coming to the school today
to get Malusi.
Malusi had a thing
with Cindy from your class.
Cindy is Big Wakes' girl.
He's way mad
and he'll even kill Malusi.
You tell him he must
rather leave. okay?
Yeah. I'll tell him.
Posh girls. what you doing in our world?
Looking for cheap thrills. girls?
Walking the steep hills. girls?
Tired of the straight ride. girls?
You want to break your stride. girls?
Street boys.
Forgot to wipe your feet. boys
You won't get this treat. boys.
Bad manners ain't so sweet. boys
You'll feel the heat. boys
From this prime-cut meat. boys
Rich girls.
Look down your nose. girls
At my old clothes.
I don't suppose. girl
You even know
Where this could go. girls
Look at all the poor boys
Making a lot of noise
We ain't just your toys. boys
We know all your ploys. boys
Maybe if you read a book
You'd get a second look. boys
You're down and out and we out
White people.
They even stole Hip-Hop from us.
Hey. Why did you stop. bro?
It's nothing. Move on.
-Settle down. 12Y.
-I don't know. Mrs.
-Twelve Y.
That joke is getting old.
Hey. just because apartheid is finished
don't mean you can talk
whenever you want to.
Hey. shut up you. We'll sort you out
quick-quick after school.
Come on. now settle it.
I'll bring the whole of Manenberg for you
then you will see. Darkie.
-Enough!
-Khayelitsha girls alone
will eat the whole
of Manenberg for a snack.
Get lost. fucker.
I said that's enough now!
-But Mrs…
-No. no 'but' Blabla.
This is entirely your fault
and I've had enough.
-Stand up.
-But Mrs…
I said stand up. Brian.
And just say something.
Anything.
Something.
I want you to listen
to me now. Brian.
Yes. Mrs.
And don't you backchat me.
No. Mrs.
You need to stop this racist attitude
from this moment on.
-But. I'm not.
-You are.
You are a racist.
You're a racist every time you say
something rude concerning Black people.
every time you use
the word 'Darkie'. or worse.
then you're doing
what is called stereotyping
and Brian. it's wrong.
Wow. Mrs.. how did you know?
Brian. do you know what stereotyping is?
When you listen to music
with two earphones. Mrs.
No. Brian. Stereotyping is when
you try to group people together
predicting their behavior
according to their race.
usually in a negative way.
-And it's wrong.
-But I'm not a racist.
Okay. fine. Let's see.
Does everyone here give Brian a free pass?
It's to try and prove a point to him.
Okay. complete this sentence for me.
All Black people…
Come. the class gave you a free pass.
Don't know how to behave. Mrs.
Let's test your theory with a survey.
Who thinks Nolu
doesn't know how to behave?
Who thinks Jama doesn't
know how to behave?
Okay. fair enough.
Who thinks Malusi
doesn't know how to behave?
And who thinks
Brian doesn't know how to behave?
Are you getting my point yet. Brian?
Wow. Mrs.
Let's try another one.
All Black people…
Make a lot of children
by a lot of different women.
Let's test that one. Nolu?
My parents are married
and I have two younger brothers. Mrs.
Are there any children
outside the marriage?
No. Mrs. They are pastors.
Okay. Malusi. what about you?
My parents are married. Mrs.
No outside children.
Okay. Jama?
Wow. Ma'am.
My father is a player. Ma'am.
He have a lot of kids outside.
Okay. Bukelwa what about you?
My mother would kill my father.
And you. Brian?
My father.
-No man. Mrs.
-Fair's fair. Brian.
Does he have kids
outside the marriage?
All is outside marriage. Mrs.
Is it the same mom?
No. Mrs.
-Okay. let's try another one.
-No man. Mrs.!
Let me make my point. Brian.
All Black people…
They don't work.
They just know how to drink.
Nolu?
My parents don't drink. Mrs..
and they are both working.
Malusi?
They are both working. Mrs.
They don't drink.
Only my father sometimes.
-Bukelwa?
-My father works.
My mother is at home.
They sometimes drink.
but not so much.
Keegan. what about you?
My father is an alcoholic
and he can't keep a job.
My mum makes money
selling pies and stuff.
Okay.
And your father. Brian?
Everyone knows
he drinks all the time. Mrs.
Do you understand
why you shouldn't stereotype?
I think so. Mrs.
Do you have something to say
to Thandisizwe?
You are not a 'Darkie'.
I mean. you are.
but not a 'Darkie' Darkie.
I'm not going to listen to music
with two earphones anymore.
Yeah. Mrs. That's the best
we're going to get from him.
It's cool.
Yo. bro. You got schooled.
Get lost. man.
Does anybody here travel
from Bonteheuwel with Simone?
Excuse me. Mr. Dorsey.
We're in the middle of a class here.
Now is not the time. Mrs. Botes.
And anyway.
I don't see any books open.
It doesn't seem
as if any work is being done.
Can anybody answer my question?
-Me. Sir.
-Have you seen her this morning?
No. Sir.
She wasn't at the terminus this morning.
Have you spoken to her
or messaged her?
I did message her. Sir.
but she didn't read it yet.
Anybody else here traveling
from Bonteheuwel?
No. Sir.
Okay. Thank you.
Sorry. Mrs.
Sir.
why did you ask those questions. Sir?
It's nothing. Jerome.
just get back to your class.
That's it.
That fucking rude bastard.
Whoa. Mrs.
I can't do this anymore.
What do you mean. Ma'am?
I'm done.
You quitting. Mrs.?
Yes.
No. Mrs. No. no.
You can't quit.
Please Sir. man.
she's my friend.
Look. nothing is confirmed.
so it probably is nothing.
Please. Sir.
Look. the story
is going around the school.
You're probably going to hear it anyway.
The body of a young girl
was found on an open field.
two streets away
from where she lives.
I can't get hold of her
or her parents.
The police told me they'll inform me
as soon as they have an I.D.
but it could be anyone.
I'm just trying to make sure.
Now just get back to your class. Jerome.
You can't go. Mrs.
You're the best teacher
in the school. Mrs.
I don't expect
you guys to understand.
It's nothing personal against you guys.
I'm sorry.
Fuck this. man.
Mr. Dorsey.
Get back to your class now.
Why aren't you
in your class. Mrs. Botes?
Bro. you missed it.
Botes just quit.
Jerome. what's wrong?
They found a body
on the field there by us.
He wanted to make sure it's not her.
But they find a body every week by us.
So I'm sure it's just a coincidence.
Do you know what I was teaching them?
Good manners. politeness.
and a good attitude
to fellow human beings.
I'm in a hurry. Mrs. Botes.
What is your point?
My point is. Mr. Dorsey. I quit.
You can take care of the class.
And it's a double period.
No. wait. I have them for L.O.
after break. Three in a row.
Now. isn't that
a well-constructed timetable?
For the love of all
that's good in this world.
I'm sure it's nothing. guys.
She's probably
feeling sick or just sleeping-in.
Where's the teacher?
It's a long story.
Okay. well. 12 Foxes. listen up.
Guys. I think I hear
my teacher calling me.
You can't leave.
You have to bunk all day. okay?
No. no. no. no. no.
I can't do that.
I can't seem to get
anywhere in this place.
Guess we're just going to have to
chalk this one down to experience.
Smoke this.
It's part of the experience.
Right class.
Settle down.
I will be supervising this class
until we have a substitute.
Mrs. Botes just needs a bit of time.
Yeah. it's a cultural journey.
Take out your books
and get down to doing something.
-I could just…
-Just be quiet. I asked you to be quiet.
-I just wanted to say that I…
-Right. you. out.
-But I…
-Out now!
You know what? Fine. I'll leave.
Can't believe this.
Any more exchange students
have anything to say?
Sir. my stomach is sore. Sir.
Sir. I must go to the toilet. Sir.
Brian. Don't start!
Sir. I ate a samosa from the tuck shop.
it was maybe off or something.
Sir. I must go
or I'm going to crap in my pants. Sir!
-For Heaven's sake.
-Sir…
You'd better not
be trying something.
You can come smell the toilet. Sir.
Just. get out of my face!
Get!
The rest of you.
take out your books
and get down to doing something.
I hope that doesn't set on fire.
Yeah. it's burning up my nose.
I love it.
This is great.
Mrs.!
Well. well. What a coincidence.
We seem to be heading
in the same direction.
-I'm not in the mood right now.
-Relax. Mrs.
Mr. Dorsey wanted me
to give you a tour of our school.
You're so full of it.
Yes. I am.
but do you have anything better to do?
I suppose not.
Where can I go for a cigarette?
I know just the spot.
May I take your bag. my lady?
-No. it's…
-It's all right.
Prefect.
Just hold on.
Sorry. sir.
This way.
Why did you do that?
I don't know. Mrs.
Everyone else does it.
Don't you think
it distracts the class?
From what. Mrs.?
Fair enough. I suppose.
This way. Lynn.
Thank goodness. Mr. Smith.
Sorry to shuffle you around like this
but could you take
care of a class. please?
It's a bit of an emergency.
-Sure thing. No problem.
-Thank you.
Where's your teacher?
-Mr. Dorsey kicked her out.
-What?
Yeah. he was very angry.
Classic bullied-as-a-child syndrome.
You'd know. You're the expert.
-Are we going to do more Maths. Sir?
-I don't think so.
Just take out your books
and work on something.
Didn't take you long
to get into the flow of things.
What flow? There is no flow.
That's the problem.
Well put. Sir.
See here. Mrs.? Perfect.
Just for you.
How about one for me?
What the hell. There you go.
You don't smoke.
So why did you ask for a cigarette?
Of course. I smoke.
this is just a very weak cigarette.
I'm used stronger ones.
that's all.
No. no. Give me that.
I'm not starting you off on a bad habit.
So caring.
Why do you try your level best
to be the pissiest student in the class?
Man…
I just got to say it.
You're so pretty.
Perfs…
-Perfect.
-Don't deflect from my question.
-Why?
-I'm serious Mrs.
My heart is beating so fast.
Here. feel.
I'll think about it if you tell me
why you behave so obnoxiously?
Mrs.
I'm so short…
if I didn't make a noise…
-Yeah. we better get back.
-Yeah. Mrs.
Before you do something crazy.
I know I'm irresistible to women.
Maybe one day
when you can actually grow a beard.
some girl might
give you the time of day.
A part of me
is growing right now as we speak.
Jeez.
Hey. girlie. haven't you got
a two Rand there for me?
No way. I'm not in the mood for you.
Just walk away.
Please. Not today.
I am not afraid of small spaces.
They try to confine us in our mind
and put us in small spaces.
But. no!
We are free.
Well. not if you're actually put in
a little spot like this one.
You know what? It's my dream to have
my wedding on Top Billing.
Like. all my furniture from overseas.
My bed from Japan
and my couch from Italy.
My fridge from London
because it's cold there.
All my clothes from Paris.
You know what I mean?
Malusi?
Are you listening?
Why do people stay together?
What do you mean?
Like.
why do old married people stay together?
There are all these
beautiful girls out there.
Why does the man
stay with his old wife?
He must stay with her
because he married her.
she gave him children
now her body is all worn out.
So it is for guilt and not for love?
No. that is love.
So love is guilt?
No man. what are you talking about?
I'm talking about my dreams
like my garden with red roses.
You just don't understand.
You know. this is…
This is me becoming a part of them
and becoming a part of my ancestors.
Yeah. I could do this.
We are freedom fighters
We are in tight spaces.
But we will rise… rise….
Rise. rise…
Got to hit that note.
Li Juan.
Britainee.
You help me?
Sure. if I can.
Why. what's up?
Want to look pretty like you.
What. do you mean like…
Like blonde?
No. Like.
hairstyle.
paint face. nice clothes.
You mean like…
Like a makeover?
Want to look nice for…
You like a boy?
Is he in this class?
Girl. don't even worry.
We are going to
turn you into such a diva.
We are going to drive that guy crazy.
It's not like this is abuse or anything.
Hey. is this abuse?
It's okay. It's fine. I'm fine!
This is great!
I'm strong.
Yes!
Okay.
Get in contact with this list of people.
Maybe I should introduce you.
We could go and have.
like. coffee meetings.
-Someplace nice.
-Thank you.
This one is particularly important.
Hey. babe.
Will you please come and sit by me?
I want to speak to you.
Excuse me.
I…
I mean…
She want go toilet. Sir.
Okay. You can go.
Go. Go. go.
Go now.
Must open the door. Sir.
Okay. Thank you.
Whenever I see you.
you're wandering around here
aimlessly. where must you be?
Out of your class again?
Just get back to your class.
Lynn.
Where are you going to hang for break?
I'm going to the staff room.
Are you coming?
-No. I think I'm going to stay here.
-Okay.
-You're on my spot.
-Sorry bro. I'll just move.
No. white boy.
That spot's also taken.
So…
Where here can I sit?
Nowhere. bro.
This school is only for Brown people
and Black people.
Fuck it. bro.
-I'm kidding. Relax.
-Nice one. bro.
That is my spot. though.
In case of surprise sleepovers.
Hey. What's happening?
Hey.
What's happening?
Maybe we'll. talk later?
Maybe we talk later.
I like your style. guy.
I like your style guy.
Not going back to class?
What for? We're not doing anything.
Yeah. you guys
don't do much work here.
Bro. if you don't have
good-school money. you fucked.
Everyone knows that.
Well. I don't have money.
I got a scholarship.
And they painted you white
as part of your repayment plan?
Well. I just want to finish my schooling.
get my degree.
and just give back to my community.
Bro. you don't even speak
the same language as them anymore.
You coming?
Yeah.
I got this.
Hello.
-Hello.
We're here to see Malusi.
He's in class 12Y.
Can you get him. please?
Yeah?
Yes. we're from the school's
Maths tutoring program.
We were here
this morning. remember?
Now we have a lot
of students to see to.
So. if we can hurry this.
Okay. first I must have your name.
You are?
I'm Al Capone
and that's John Gotti.
You know what?
Just write it down.
Thank you.
-Yes?
-There are men here for Malusi.
Sure thing. Malusi. you can go.
Guys. what's this about?
Shut up and keep walking.
-Hey. what are you doing. man?
-Don't play dumb with me. Nigger.
I really don't know
what you're talking about.
For fuck's sakes. you're screwing
around with my lady?
Bukelwa and you?
Not your Nigger bitch.
I'm talking about my girl!
I don't know.
This guy saw you. fucker!
-I don't remember.
-Don't remember?
I'm going to take this knife.
I'm going to carve it
into your forehead you fuck!
What the fuck is going on there?
-Let's go see. bro.
-Wait…
Shit.
Hey. what's happening?
Hey guys. I'm Josh. Hi.
Hi.
So what's happening here?
-Walk away. bro.
-No. these guys want to stab me.
I'll fuck both of you up.
You don't know me.
I'm from Heideveld. back off.
Hold me back.
Hold my arms. bro.
You're lucky he's holding me back.
Let go of me!
Hold my arms. bro.
Don't let go of me.
If this fucker moves.
shoot both of them.
I like your style guy.
Maybe we get
to know each other better.
I gonna rock your world.
Now you'll see what happens
to people who touch my girl.
Hey!
What are you doing with my brother?
What the fuck
is going on at this school?
So do you want my digits?
Call me.
Okay.
First of all…
I'm coming. Malusi!
I'm coming. brother.
Wait.
You've got the wrong guy.
-For fuck's sakes. man!
-I was by Cindy's this morning.
I don't know. bro.
They all look the same with the hair.
-You know what I mean?
-So you're the pig who fucked Cindy?
I don't remember.
-No one remembers anything!
-Two thousand…
Eight hundred.
I'm sure you really nice
and I love sushi
but we're on different journeys.
you and I.
In the global metaphor of life.
I'm the undulating dunes
of a parched desert
in the darkest hour of the night.
And you.
you're three tiny green plants.
growing in someone's back garden
in between paving stones.
-What you say?
-How do I put this better?
Shoot this motherfucker!
Hey. Wakes!
What the hell are you doing there?
Well. don't stand there
with a mouthful of teeth.
Come. let me hear.
Cindy. I heard you've been
messing around with this Nigger.
What?
I heard you've been
messing around with this Nigger!
So what if I did?
Where were you last weekend?
A little birdie told me that
you were there with that whore Janice
there in Strandfontein!
Cindy. I'm in the middle of something.
In the middle of a rock and a hard place
you sick. wet. fucker!
-Cindy. please.
-Now it's 'Cindy please'?
Good manners
aren't going to help you now!
You can't just come here
and tell me what to do!
You are not the boss of me!
What I'm trying to say is.
I'm gender fluid.
I mean. what these pigeonholes
we put ourselves in anyways.
I'm like liquid water at the point
just before it becomes steam
and at that point…
-Have you heard of Pan sexual?
-What?
Have you heard of Asexual?
Sapiosexual?
Well. I'm at the nexus of all three.
I'm Aspanpiosexual.
So you say no call me?
I say no call you.
You kill my brother now I kill you.
Malusi!
What am I hearing that you have
a thing with Cindy?
Answer me!
-I didn't do anything.
-You didn't do anything!
You. just
leave. me!
Get lost!
Actually. I don't think that he…
You stay out of it.
It's none of your business. man.
Out of my way!
Roberto. fuck it.
Let's just go.
-But…
-No. no buts.
Let's just go.
Simone. I can't even explain to you
how crazy this day has been.
I can see. yes.
Simone there's something
I want to tell you.
And I'm scared if I don't say it now.
I'm never going
to get the chance to say it.
-I just want to say that…
-No Jerome. stop.
Why?
What you want to say.
it's the kind of thing
you must say to someone in person.
someone who's really there.
And I'm not really here. Jerome.
You can't waste it.
It must be for someone
who can say it back to you.
-But Simone…
-Jerome.
I'm sorry.
They're here.
All of you from Fern Leaf House.
get out.
What do you mean?
You all have no right to be here for this.
Get out. Get out!
-What's going on?
-Come on 12 Foxes.
-But why?
-Just get the hell out!
Let's not ask questions. let's just go.